

  This directory contains various grammar files for the OCL2.0 parser generator
  and specification analysis utility. Some of these files reside in subdirectory
  "historic" since they are outdated.

      BasicGrammar.txt          Early version of a machine-readable OCL2.0
                                specification. No rules for context declarations.
                                Mainly used to find bugs in the specification
                                of the OCL2.0 concrete syntax (extracted from
                                [OCL15]).

      OCL20.txt                 Basically the same as BasicGrammar.txt, but with
                                some reformatting applied and some obvious incon-
                                sistencies fixed (e. g. production names or 
                                production reference names).

      OCL20CTX.TSG              OCL2.0 concrete syntax for context specifications.
                                Extracted from [OCL16], ch. 7.4.

      OCL20_WC1.txt             Working copy (#1) of OCL20.txt, with changes to
                                reflect specification updates/changes which
                                occurred from [OCL15] to [OCL16]. Removed some
                                productions which are no longer contained in
                                [OCL16].

      OCL20.TSG                 OCL20_WC1.txt merged with OCL20CTX.TSG, to allow
                                parsing of context declarations. Was used as basis
                                to generate initial version of grammar file for
                                sablecc parser generator.
				
      EbnfTerms-NoContexts.txt  File containing raw ebnf terms for OCL2.0 in no
                                specific parser generator syntax (does not contain
				context declaration productions). Sorted by rhs of
				production to allow quick visual checking of possible
				parser conflicts. Creation date: approx. Sept. 2003

      EbnfTerms-WithContexts.txt
                                File containing raw ebnf terms for OCL2.0 in no
				specific parser generatorsyntax (DOES contain
				context declaration productions). Sorted by rhs
				of production. Creation date: approx. June 2004

      EBNF.g                    ANTLR grammar of the EBNF terms used in the
                                OCL 1.6 Draft Specification. Used to analyze
                                EBNF terms with the specification analysis tool.

      TSG.g                     Defines the "Terse Specification Grammar". TSG
                                is a text file format used to specify an easy-to-parse
                                variant of an EBNF description of a grammar. A TSG
                                file contains a grammar description. This grammar
                                describes the grammar of a TSG file. (ANTLR syntax)

      PrimOCL.g                 Grammar of primitive OCL constructs used in the
                                attribution rules and disambiguating rules of the
                                OCL 1.6 Draft Specification. (ANTLR syntax)

      PrecRulesLeftAssoc.g      Example grammar to play with precedence rules and
                                left associativity of operators. (ANTLR syntax)

      sablecc2.sable            SableCC (grammar) input file grammar. This file
                                defines the extended grammar for input files of
                                the tailor-made SableCC variant used to generate
                                the attribute evaluator for the OCL2.0 parser.				
                                (plain old SableCC 2.x syntax).
				
      TEST.grammar		Intermediate OCL2.0 grammar file. Unused.
				
      OCL20.xgrammar            OCL2.0 grammar file (extended SableCC syntax). This
                                file defines the OCL2.0 concrete syntax and basic
				attribute evaluation properties of the productions
				in this grammar. This file is used to generate the
				SableCC-based OCL2.0 parser.


  All grammar files (c) 2004, 2005 Ansgar Konermann.

  All files in this directory are subject to the license terms contained in the
  file "LICENSE" in this directory.

